If you’re still wondering about the next technological innovation, take a look at some of the newest tech trends that have been hand-picked by our experts.

1.5G Technology- A Boon For Businesses in 2020
The term ‘5G’ has been creating a buzz for almost half a decade now and since it has rolled out, it definitely, like its predecessors, has created a revolution of a kind. The advent of 5G is one of the most enigmatic new upcoming technologies that could impact businesses in 2020. Many industry experts have termed 5G as the future of communication and to a great extent, it is true.

“5G wireless networks will support 1,000-fold gains in capacity, connections for at least 100 billion devices and a 10 GB/s individual user experience of extremely low latency and response times, as stated by Huawei. “Deployment of these networks will emerge between 2020 and 2030.”  

The most striking feat of 5G will be its speed which is expected to clock at 20 GB/s. Now, how fast are we discussing? Let us take an example. Suppose you download the contents of an (approx) 5 GB DVD at an average of 50 MB/s. It will take roughly about 13 minutes. Now the same will take barely 2 seconds to download on 5G at top speed. 

The heterogeneous network distribution. Source: Qorvo

Some noteworthy goals of the 5G technology include

Amplified broadband for mobile communication
Object-specific transformation with increased connectivity 
Unlimited scope for IoT enhancement
Increased flexibility and support
However, to take this speed to everyday mobile users, mobile network carriers will need to increase bandwidth and reduce network costs. Moreover, LTE adoption isn’t waning and is estimated to reach $672 billion by the end of 2020. 

The onset of 5G opens up a massive playground where subsequent technologies will find their vantages. Trends like self-driven cars, VR/MR/MR, empowered smart cities, etc. strengthen the foundation for ‘what’s next in technology’.

2. Autonomous Driving- An Easy, Safe Driverless Drive
You must be apprised of companies like Tesla, Alphabet, and Waymo, and the one thing that is common among them is their objective, which is to craft impeccable autonomous vehicles. The idea of a driverless car in itself generates a considerable amount of excitement.

Tesla and SpaceX founder and chief Elon Musk already has the future design of autonomous vehicles and aims to go big in this industry. During an interview Elon has stated, “From our standpoint, if you fast forward a year, maybe a year and three months, but next year for sure, we’ll have over a million Robo-taxis on the road.”

Functions like automated braking, lane-changing, and automation of other in-car systems are on their way to being streamlined with the guidance of data capture and analytics.

There is still time for the modulation of the laws for autonomous driving by legislators, regulators, and authorities. Over that, significant tweaks will be required in the existing infrastructure, laws, and social attitudes before we can embrace autonomous vehicles in the current technology trends in information technology. But none of these determinants could rule out the possibility of autonomous vehicles in 2020.

3. Edge computing- Bridging the Gap Between Data Storage and Computation
Today, the primary concern of every industry is the laggy approach that sometimes affects the overall management of the operations. Therefore, industries are focusing more on the efficiency and the response rate of computing, through which data analysis is made. And here comes the role of edge computing. 

Edge computing brings data storage and computation closer to the businesses, and hence, ameliorates the response times and saves bandwidth. Also, it weighs more like the latest trend in technology because the industries are rapidly empowered with sophisticated and specialized resources, which is bound to reduce the latency. 

The primary advantages of Edge computing include

Edge computing enhances the security to a new level by countering the issues of local compliance, privacy regulations, and data sovereignty. Although many believe that edge computing, in fact, expands the vulnerable surface for attacks, it clearly nullifies the impact of an organization. 
Speed gets massively enhanced with the help of edge computing as it reduces the amount of latency. For example, autonomous vehicles require faster processing of data since every millisecond matters on the roads matters. By confining data analysis to the edge, the speed of processing the data can be massively improved.     
Edge computing reduces the cost of retaining the data significantly by categorizing each data from the management perspective. As data can be retained in edge locations, it significantly reduces the bandwidth cost and all but eliminates the redundant storage.  
As of now, edge computing is being fueled by the rapid evolution of the Internet of Things (IoT) and in the future, it will create an unstructured architecture over a set of distributed cloud services. For instance, we have drones that directly communicate with the enterprise IoT platform and conduct peer-to-peer exchanges. One such example is the latest package delivery drone by Amazon. 
