How technology has changed our lives:
 
Technology has changed everyone’s life in many different ways, let it be work related or even related to household chores. 
Technology is a very vast term by itself, it can be the smallest little thing in our homes to the largest machine in the world. 
Technology is also the link between the virtual world and the real world. 
As of today, technology is still getting better and better, in fact it is a non-stop growing process. 
Technology is defined to be a tool or device that makes the life easier and faster for us, as humans.
One of the technologies that bought a big change in our lives are email and mobile phones, email and mobiles have made communication way easier than before, now one does not require to go to the post office to post a single mail and pay from your pocket for such a small thing. 
We can connect to anyone, anywhere around the world by a simple touch. In fact, mobile phones have changed from being a want to being a need for this generation. This is just one such example that has made our lives faster and more convenient.
Next big change was the invention of different vehicles such as cars, bikes, airplanes, etc. This change in the world was and in fact, is still very significant. You might have heard your grand-parents tell you how difficult travelling was during their time, am I right? However, travelling has become a lot easier and quicker than before. Technology has been changing dramatically and so are we. We have adapted to a wide variety of technology and we still continue to do so every single day.
There are a lot of new technologies that are used for the betterment of the country, such as powerful weapons for defense purposes, strong servers to maintain information and important data, AI powered devices to automate things, and a lot more.
 

How technology is being used during this pandemic:

This pandemic has changed our lives drastically, we have never been so exposed towards technology as we are today. We have experienced and also learnt new stuff during the lockdown, let it be washing the dishes, brooming the house or even working from home. However, all this is closely linked to technology, let me tell you how:
•	Many schools and colleges have started taking lectures online via many different platforms such as, Zoom, Google meet, Microsoft teams, etc. This is technology that has resolved issues faced by students and teachers during this pandemic.
•	Certain companies have come up with innovative products that help us with our household chores, such as robotic vacuum cleaner, robotic window cleaner or even a mechanical mop.
•	Not only household chores, but also people have come up with innovative ideas such home-gym; this lets you have a full session workout at home while learning online. Apps such as Arogya-setu in India also help us in many ways, such as, it warns us about covid affected people around the area we live in. 

How technology has also failed us:
 
Technology is not always beneficial. Technology does have drawbacks and also has a negative impact on our daily lives. 
Technology has resulted in people becoming lazier and more dependent on technology rather than being self-independent. 
Technology such as gaming consoles and even mobile games have negative impact on children of this generation, 
they are addictive and also affect our health in many ways as shown on the right:

